Sequel script
/* I foresee this script being turned into a video essay or pitch for a sequel */

Outline
1. Introduction of main themes
2. History of Desire, as represented in Gaiman's story
3. Desire's arc in the sequel
4. Deeper characterization of Desire
5. Stories that could be told, think of these as issues/arcs


-1-
Here's the elevator pitch, with much more detail to follow:
Neil Gaiman's The Sandman was a deeply personal epic, following the embodiment of aspects of the universe called the Endless--including Dream, Desire, Destiny, Death, and others--as a loose family drama tackling topics like one's capacity for change and the power of stories. Much of the series' appeal is due to the family dynamics between these Endless, as well as the ambitious scope of serialized storytelling and imagination on display. While Gaiman's work brought finality to Dream's incarnation, this sequel follows Desire, as the brother/sister adapts to Dream's absence and the role he/she played in what occurred.
-2-
Following decades-long imprisonment at the start of the series, the embodiment of Dream struggles to reclaim his realm while balancing newfound empathy. He struggles between his duty and his capacity for change, before ultimately reincarnating to a new manifestation of Dream.
In the background of Gaiman’s family drama epic, few relationships are as fraught as that between Desire and Dream/Morpheus. From the machinations of creating a vortex (Rose Walker) during Morpheus’ decade-long capture by the cult in issue 1 to Dream’s doomed romance with Thessaly before the Kindly Ones arc, Desire consistently antagonized Morpheus in a predatory game of cat and mouse. That game ends without resolution via Morpheus’ weary succumbing/suicide to protect his realm from the Fates, a conclusion that sparks ambiguous feelings in Desire. During Morpheus’ wake, Desire states, “...”
-3-
These unresolved feelings are a great inspiration for a sequel volume centering on Desire. We’ve already seen Destruction’s abdication of his realm and Dream’s own passing from one incarnation to the next, so it is an appropriate theme to develop. Whereas Vol. 2 portrayed Desire with a certain feline, playful-and-impetuous character, I propose that the trauma of Morpheus’ decision shocks Desire into self-reflection and contemplation of non-existence—such is the legacy of his/her family recently. This impulse originates as a suicidal one, perhaps with strains of Buddhist enlightenment about escaping suffering by killing Desire; yet the series arcs towards growth and evolution, key characteristics of Desire’s ephemeral nature. 
Morpheus’ conflict often arose from the character’s relative inability to change weighing that character down, and Desire’s story can celebrate how life represents the beauty of, and capacity for, change. Morpheus and Desire are different characters so this should not negate Morpheus’ story, but hopefully it adds a layer of optimism in how our choices shape us. Morpheus wished to change more than he thought himself capable, and Desire adapts beyond any will or intentionality to do so. This characterization can start small, like a check on the cruelty that Desire sometimes expresses when interacting with others, and it blossoms as the story matures. Gradually Desire self-influences itself into healthy and productive habits and goals, eventually embracing that self-preserving facet of her/himself.
...
